README.md, before:

# cookiecutter-pypippackage

A Cookiecutter template for a [PyPI](https://pypi.python.org/) compatible, `pip` installable Python package with unit tests.

[Cookiecutter](https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter) is a command-line utility that creates projects from cookiecutters (project templates).


# Installation of Cookiecutter

You need to have Python, `pip` and Cookiecutter to use _cookiecutter-pypippackage_.
This section assumes that you have Python and `pip`, and shows the installation of Cookiecutter.

To install Cookiecutter:

```
pip install cookiecutter
```

Don't you have `pip`?
See the
[installation guide of `pip`](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/).


# Usage of cookiecutter-pypippackage

After installing Cookiecutter, you can use _cookiecutter-pypippackage_ with the following command:

```
cookiecutter https://github.com/caglartoklu/cookiecutter-pypippackage.git
```


# Testing

After creating the package, tests can be executed with the following command at the root folder of the package:

```
python setup.py test
```

The testing framework of choice is [nose](https://nose.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).


# FAQ

### What is the Python version for the resulting package ?

The resulting package is fully tested with Python 3.
Python 2 is not supported yet, but it is on the way.

### How can I edit the `README.rst` file of the resulting package ?

PyPI supports reStructuredText by default instead of Markdown.
That is why the resulting package has a `README.rst` file instead of `README.md`.
You can use any editor for reStructuredText such as Vim, Emacs, Sublime Text etc.
If you want a specific editor, you can check [ReText](https://github.com/retext-project/retext).
If you need an online editor without any installation and configuration, you can use [rsted](https://github.com/anru/rsted).

### I don't like this package, it is too simple/complex/good/bad/ugly for me. Are there any alternatives for Python packages?

There is [cookiecutter-pypackage](https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter#cookiecutter-specials)
which is maintained by Cookiecutter team.
And [some others](https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter#python) too.


# Checklist after Creating the Package

- [ ] Run the tests.
- [ ] Check the `setup.py` content.
- [ ] Check the `tox.ini` content and remove unsupported Python versions.
- [ ] Edit the resulting `README.rst` content.


# Tutorial

Here is a sample session with cookiecutter-pypippackage:
![cookiecutter-pypippackage1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2071639/31346524-060afd0c-ad22-11e7-8a9a-028a99f24c7c.gif)

The resulting `setup.py` file:

```python
"""
setuptools module for project.
"""

import setuptools

setuptools.setup(
    name="pack1",
    version="0.1.0",
    url="https://github.com/brucewayne/pack1",

    author="Bruce Wayne",
    author_email="brucewayne@gmail.com",

    description="That is some package",
    long_description=open('README.rst').read(),

    packages=setuptools.find_packages(),

    install_requires=[],

    classifiers=[
        'Development Status :: 2 - Pre-Alpha',
        'Programming Language :: Python',
        'Programming Language :: Python :: 3',
        'Programming Language :: Python :: 3.4',
        'Programming Language :: Python :: 3.5',
        'Programming Language :: Python :: 3.6',
    ],

    entry_points={
        'console_scripts': ['pack1=pack1.command_line:main'],
    },

    test_suite='nose.collector',
    tests_require=['nose'],

    include_package_data=True,
    zip_safe=False,
)
```


# License

This Cookiecutter template itself is licensed with MIT.
See the [LICENSE.txt](LICENSE.txt).

The package you create with this Cookiecutter template has the MIT license by default,
but it can be freely changed after creating the package.

Commit message:

Added FAQ for cookiecutter.json questions.

README.md, after:

# cookiecutter-pypippackage

A Cookiecutter template for a [PyPI](https://pypi.python.org/) compatible, `pip` installable Python package with unit tests.

[Cookiecutter](https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter) is a command-line utility that creates projects from cookiecutters (project templates).


# Installation of Cookiecutter

You need to have Python, `pip` and Cookiecutter to use _cookiecutter-pypippackage_.
This section assumes that you have Python and `pip`, and shows the installation of Cookiecutter.

To install Cookiecutter:

```
pip install cookiecutter
```

Don't you have `pip`?
See the
[installation guide of `pip`](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/).


# Usage of cookiecutter-pypippackage

After installing Cookiecutter, you can use _cookiecutter-pypippackage_ with the following command:

```
cookiecutter https://github.com/caglartoklu/cookiecutter-pypippackage.git
```


# Testing

After creating the package, tests can be executed with the following command at the root folder of the package:

```
python setup.py test
```

The testing framework of choice is [nose](https://nose.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).


# FAQ

### What is the Python version for the resulting package ?

The resulting package is fully tested with Python 3.
Python 2 is not supported yet, but it is on the way.

### How can I edit the `README.rst` file of the resulting package ?

PyPI supports reStructuredText by default instead of Markdown.
That is why the resulting package has a `README.rst` file instead of `README.md`.
You can use any editor for reStructuredText such as Vim, Emacs, Sublime Text etc.
If you want a specific editor, you can check [ReText](https://github.com/retext-project/retext).
If you need an online editor without any installation and configuration, you can use [rsted](https://github.com/anru/rsted).

### I don't like this package, it is too simple/complex/good/bad/ugly for me. Are there any alternatives for Python packages ?

There is [cookiecutter-pypackage](https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter#cookiecutter-specials)
which is maintained by Cookiecutter team.
And [some others](https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter#python) too.

### Which fields I need to fill to create a package from scratch ?

Just a few.
Take a look at [cookiecutter.json](cookiecutter.json).


# Checklist after Creating the Package

- [ ] Run the tests.
- [ ] Check the `setup.py` content.
- [ ] Check the `tox.ini` content and remove unsupported Python versions.
- [ ] Edit the resulting `README.rst` content.


# Tutorial

Here is a sample session with cookiecutter-pypippackage:
![cookiecutter-pypippackage1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2071639/31346524-060afd0c-ad22-11e7-8a9a-028a99f24c7c.gif)

The resulting `setup.py` file:

```python
"""
setuptools module for project.
"""

import setuptools

setuptools.setup(
    name="pack1",
    version="0.1.0",
    url="https://github.com/brucewayne/pack1",

    author="Bruce Wayne",
    author_email="brucewayne@gmail.com",

    description="That is some package",
    long_description=open('README.rst').read(),

    packages=setuptools.find_packages(),

    install_requires=[],

    classifiers=[
        'Development Status :: 2 - Pre-Alpha',
        'Programming Language :: Python',
        'Programming Language :: Python :: 3',
        'Programming Language :: Python :: 3.4',
        'Programming Language :: Python :: 3.5',
        'Programming Language :: Python :: 3.6',
    ],

    entry_points={
        'console_scripts': ['pack1=pack1.command_line:main'],
    },

    test_suite='nose.collector',
    tests_require=['nose'],

    include_package_data=True,
    zip_safe=False,
)
```


# License

This Cookiecutter template itself is licensed with MIT.
See the [LICENSE.txt](LICENSE.txt).

The package you create with this Cookiecutter template has the MIT license by default,
but it can be freely changed after creating the package.
